#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language spanish
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage cleardoublepage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*

\series bold
Resumen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
En la actualidad, las aulas de informática de varios centros no disponen
 de puestos suficientes como para cubrir la demanda.
 Aunque existen aulas de informática infrautilizadas en el campus, estas
 no tienen instalado el 
\emph on
software
\emph default
 que utilizan todos los alumnos.
 Por ello, para realizar trabajos o prácticas, en muchos casos los alumnos
 deben utilizar sus portátiles o trabajar desde sus casas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
En este documento presentamos un sistema que aprovecha las virtudes de la
 computación 
\emph on
cloud
\emph default
 para crear puestos de laboratorio virtuales.
 Estos permitirán que los alumnos de cualquier titulación puedan trabajar
 desde cualquier aula de informática del campus.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Asimismo, el sistema elimina los lentos procesos burocráticos asociados
 a la modificación de la configuración de los equipos de las aulas de informátic
a.
 Al utilizarlo, los profesores podrán modificar una configuración en cuestión
 de horas (y no de semanas o meses).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finalmente, la solución propuesta permite reducir los efectos de los recortes
 en el sector educativo, ya que en las aulas de informática podrán utilizarse
 equipos más baratos y con un menor consumo energético.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Palabras clave
\series default
: Cloud Computing, IaaS, KVM, libvirt, web2py, twisted, Python
\emph on
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*

\series bold
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nowadays, the computers from several faculty labs are often insufficient
 to meet the demand.
 Although there are underutilized computer rooms in the campus, the software
 that every student needs is not always installed on their PCs.
 Therefore, many students must use their own laptops to do their assignments
 or work from home.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this document, we introduce a system that takes advantage of the the
 cloud computing's virtues to create virtual lab machines.
 These machines will allow every student from every degree to work at every
 computer room in the campus.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Furthermore, this system eliminates the time-consuming bureaucratic procedures
 needed to install or configure software on the computer rooms.
 By using it, teachers can modify a system configuration within a few hours.
 Currently, this takes several weeks and even months.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Last, but not least, the proposed solution helps to reduce the effects of
 budget cuts in education by allowing the use of cheaper and more energy-efficie
nt PCs in the computer rooms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Keywords
\series default
: Cloud Computing, IaaS, KVM, libvirt, web2py, twisted, Python
\emph on
.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
